>> Jason Lengstorf: Now that we
are able to get that custom data,
we can start using it.
So let's get these stuff
up onto the screen.
So the first thing that we're gonna need
is we're gonna need react components
to actually show this stuff on the screen.
So let's get into our theme docs.
And we're gonna create
a couple new things.
So the first thing we want is a template.
And this is a convention that I like,
but that is not required.
Whenever I create pages
programmatically in Gatsby,
I like to call them templates
the component that gets used by Gatsby's
on page create, I call that a template and
I keep those in a separate directory.
So I'm gonna create source templates and
I'll call this one docs page template.js.
And inside of it,
I'm going to import react from react and
I will import the MDXRenderer,
so this is the helper that
I was talking about awhile back that'll
help us show that MDX stuff is code.
So MDX gives us this,
like this functions and stuff, and
that pulls out that layout component that
we use and it wraps up all the same MDX
stuff, so that if we write React inside
of our MDX files it'll get rendered.
But we don't wanna have
to manually parse that.
So the Docs page template is going
to do one thing, which is load data.
And then we'll build a Docs page
component that will display data.
And that's a very deliberate choice
to separate the sourcing of the data,
from the display of the data, because what
it means is that if I wanna make changes
to one or the other, I don't necessarily
wanna have to rewrite the full query or
rewrite the full component.
When we get into component shadowing it's
a little easier to understand why that's
a helpful distinction to make.
But so, in a template what we'll do is
we wanna have React in the context so
we'll import React from React.
And then we're going to import graph qL,
from Gatsby.
And then we're going to export a query.
So the query, it has to be exported.
It doesn't necessarily
need to be named query.
You can name it whatever you want, but
Gatsby does require that it is export it.
And what we're doing here is
what's called a page query.
And these only work on files that will be
parsed as part of the the page
creation process by Gatsby.
So in the on Create Page or
the create pages API is
the only time that this works.
And that's why I like to keep these in
a separate folder under templates so that
it's more clear that these get handled
differently than the average component.
So the query that I wanna write is
going to load a page by its ID.
So what I wanna do to show how
that works is, we get an ID, and
let's just write our query here.
So, one of the ways that I love to develop
in Gatsby is to use the GraphQL explorer,
and just copy paste it in so I can verify
that my queries work before I save it and
start up Gatsby.
So the first thing I'm going to
do is set up a query variable.
And I'm gonna call this page ID.
And the page ID is going to be a string,
and we're gonna give it
the this ID from the homepage.
So to use that,
I can close this docs page, and
I'm gonna do a single docs page request.
And I want to use this page ID that we
set up, so now I can reference this.
And to source that I want to make sure
that the page we request matches that ID.
And then inside of it
I wanna get the title
when it was updated, and
I want to make that relative to now and
then I want the body and
that's all I need to display the page.
So we're gonna stick with that.
And I think I,
oops I forgot to start the server.
So let's yarn workspace theme-dev develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, and
now when I run it, it should work.
So we've got the homepage, it was updated
an hour ago and it's got this body in it.
So that I can then just copy and
drop straight in here, fix my indent so
that it looks the way I want.
And so
this page ID is gonna have to get set.
But we can set that from the Create
Page API in Gatsby using context.
We'll look at that in a second
when we go to use this, template.